And sort of the same problem is, I'm not sure quite
yet, the county organizations feature and
explain briefly about, but I really want to just
give a composite view of the world, the Texas
world. When I lived in Grandview and was in
practice, I was a member of the Tarrant County
Veterinary Medical Association. When I was in
Houston, the Harris County. Then the Harris
County group splintered off, and they had the
large animal practitioners in Harris County, and
they had the Harris County Veterinary Medical
Association. So, you know, somewhere you need to
mention that. I suppose that still exists. As far
as I know, they've done a lot of those county
histories, and I've got most of that material, I
believe. I gave a program there eight or ten years
ago with a large animal group out on the way
somewhere up from Houston. Let's close, I guess,
with this thought. What are the big, as you see it,
trends in veterinary medicine or developing
problems in the profession from your
perspective, both as a practitioner and as an
academician, let's say? Do you see any radical
changes in development? Or maybe not even
radical, but just Well, I've seen a lot of changes
since I've been here. I think one of the things as a
practitioner that I see is the intensification of
pursuit of research, publish or perish, and sort
of getting away from the trend of training for
practitioners entirely. To me, it seems to
concentrate on selecting a person that has
propensity for research and practice. They may be
like they used to. They may change their attitude
after they get to be seniors and graduates. Do you
see the practice changing out in the field such
that now you're going to set up increasingly the
clinic, the specialized clinic, or the
specialists, let's say, and then maybe a few
general, fewer general practitioners who feed in
their clients to the specialists? I guess if
they're sharp enough to get in and graduate from
college of veterinary medicine, they can
recognize a need. If there's a need somewhere and
they're not doing too well in a specialty, we're
referral practice only. I think Herman
Dietrich's a good example of that. We're back to
more of a general practice. Worming and
inoculations and general health in the patient is
still, in my opinion, a moneymaker. If you've got
everybody sending you orthopedic cases and you
only do internal fixation orthopedics, you get a
fabulous fee. Certainly you're going to get
financially
well. This subject's addressed in this last AVMA
journal. Have you looked at it? No, I just got
yesterday. I think you need to have a copy of it.
Okay, I'll look at that. It's in regard to analysis
of the Pew report. Good. Veterinary medicine is
changing in this respect that there's less
attention to the individual animal and more
concern about herd
health and such as that. I don't accept that
statement. I think this might be true in food
animal medicine, but food animal medicine is
becoming less and less a part of veterinary
medicine all the time. Say that again? Food is
becoming less and less. Okay.
Because it's usually herd health or flock health
instead of individual animals. The health of that
depends on the diagnosis of the individual
diseased animal. Okay. So you sit on the fence
looking and throw a hundred head out there and say,
well, you know, you ought to do this and that.
You've got to still go back. It's treating the
individual animal that is of interest to the
practicing veterinarian. And that is where the
money is going to be. It's becoming more like human
health medicine. And instead of departing from
that picture, it's approaching it more, I think.
the value of the individual animal when you're
talking about the equine species and the which
involves sentiment and emotion as well but that's
the pet practice whether it's exotic pets cat and
dog it's sentiment and emotion that causes them to
spend unlimited sums on these animals Yeah, and
that's one of the big changes, I kind of sense, too.
It's not an economic decision like it was. I don't
know whether I ought to make this statement or not,
but it certainly is the basis for a lot of my
feelings and philosophy about veterinary
medicine. I think that our administrators are a
result of the academic environment more and more.
Less and less of them have had experience as
practitioners dealing with With people and
animals in the real world there. I don't know but
what someday we're going to look for our
administrators to come out of Administrative
training in college. I wouldn't be surprised. Oh,
yeah. Yeah, I wouldn't be surprised, you know
business. Yeah Education is a business It's not
veterinary medicine That's right and the
business is is getting bucks. How can we get
research dollars? They don't devise something
that needs to be researched. They don't have the
objective out there. No, that's right. It's the
bucks. Can we get a quarter of a million dollars,
and how can we spend it? And of course, that's
typical of the whole world, not just veterinary
medicine at all. And it is a problem. You know, I'm
not sure this has any relevance to the
conversation at all, but I have a friend now who
came in yesterday from San Antonio with her little
whatever the dog is that is 13 years old, fell off a
bed, broke its disc, I guess it was, in the
vertebra, was paralyzed, brought the dog in for
care, concern, and treatment, and so forth, and
probably she spent the weekend here We were out of
town. Now she's going to spend four or five more
days here. I don't know how much money they're
going to spend on that dog, but that is, in my mind, a
classic example of a new kind of decision
regarding treatment of animals. It's technology
availability. They now have the ability to have
them. But she has the money to spend on that dog, and
money is no object. And money was the object. You
just don't do that. That's one of the things that
Elmo referred to when he brought up about food
animal medicine, that many times they'll come to
you and you give them an estimate on it, and
economically they'll go over to the sale or
they'll go to the slaughter plant. That's right.
And you don't get anything. Maybe you get a fee for
telling them what to do, but there are a lot of those
things that you just price yourself out of the
market. I could remember a guy having a head for
cesarean for $20. And he said, hell, I ain't going
to spend that kind of money. He said, no, this shit
refers. I said, well, if you've got two $20 bills in
your pocket and you lose one, do you take the other
one out and throw it away? You've got a chance to
recoup some of your funds. There was an old boy who
castrated horses named Pruitt in Fort Worth. And
he came out and set up an elaborate practice. And he
got $65 for horse castration. Everybody else was
getting $15. This was in the late 40s, early 50s. He
didn't castrate many horses, but he made plenty of
money when he did. But there's quite a difference
in establishing fees with individual practices.
And people, you call them at your clients. I can
remember an old lady drove up to the Cadillac with a
black cat. She liked for the cat to call the
veterinarian by his first name. And she'd been
going to somebody and he said, look, I'm better for
that damn cat calling me Joe. And she came to see me.
There wasn't anything wrong with the cat. She
didn't mind paying $10 for me to rub the cat and tell
him that this is Uncle Charlie and all that. You
know, we'll have that. It's my estimate of good
business. Yeah. And you deal with the people. I've
worked with this a lot. The practitioner's out
there dealing with it. The client is the person,
not the animal, particularly. I can recall a man
who was in the printing business, named Hodgkins,
had a printing deal there in Arlington. He went in
the Charolais business, and I went out to Dee Horns
from Gattle for him. He had about, I think it was
five young bulls there. and he wanted the horns
blocked you know it was routine to just chop those
suckers off and treat them and i spent
considerable time blocking the corneal nerves
and cutting them off and an additional figure for
each i don't give a damn what it costs i don't want to
hurt them yeah so you know you've got the people
that really put them in it's a change and that that
kind of that part of the world is changing oh yeah
the way you know attitude toward animals, and this
animal rights thing, and that's going to impact on
you somehow, and I don't know how, or maybe it is
already, but that's
a strange thing to have to deal with. Well, they're
radical thinkers. They have some points well
taken, but it's the nuts that are taking the
points. You can deal with a rational person. and
correct some of those things, which I agree with.
We've got some things in the livestock industry
and among veterinarians. I want to give you some
other names here. Okay, good. Thank you. We're
about ready to close it all. I've got a question for
you. Have you ever been to the Hill College
Confederate exhibit up there? No. I want you to go.
I promise you. This is run by Colonel Simpson.
Yeah, I know Simpson. Yeah, yeah. You know, I've
been, my wife and I went by there and it was closed.
So I went the other day.